now the buffer zone between Egypt and
Gaza is known as the Philadelphia
Corridor the 14 km long strip of land
represents the entirity of the Border
area between Gaza and Egypt Israel
managed the area controlling the
movement of goods and people until it
withdrew its forces from Gaza in
2005 since then Egyptian forces have
taken over patrolling duties but Israel
still inspects all of the deliveries
into the
territory both Egypt and Hamas strongly
oppose Israel's control over the
corridor Hussein hardi is a former
Egyptian assistant foreign minister and
Ambassador joins us now from the
Egyptian Capital Cairo Mr Hari good to
have you with us on Al jazer thank you
for your time control of the
Philadelphia Corridor and control of the
Rafa border crossing are going to be a
very tough discussion for the US with
Egypt because these agreements were
years in the making and enshrined in
various peace
deals well definitely uh one of the
uh one of the topics uh that have been
hampering reaching a ceire agreement in
Gaza is of course the future of the
Philadelphia Corridor as well as the
Palestinian side of the
Rafa uh Egypt has always
maintained that it rejects it as Egypt
as always rejected the uh permanent uh
Israeli presence military presence in
the Philadelphia Corridor as well as an
Israeli control over the Palestinian
side of the RAF cring and this this
Remains the Egyptian position and this
Egyptian position is part is part of the
uh Egyptian vision of a complete
withdrawal of Israeli forces from the
Gaza St
so I I I I expect the talks in Cairo or
in egyp between Mr blink and Senior
Egyptian officials will be quite Frank
quite Frank and Egypt want budge from
its position of course there is always
can I just jump in there sir just
obviously we know the diplomacy that
will be required all of this happening
obviously behind closed doors can I just
ask you as a former Ambassador what
sense do you get of The Strain between
Cairo and Tel Aviv right now over the
war in
Gaza I I I I don't think that the
relations between Egypt and and and
Israel right now are in in in a better
in a better shape uh I guess tension is
very very very very high it's very high
and and and and I I suspect that it it
it would remain so for uh for a per of
time until Israel until Mr natany and
his ruling Coalition they changed their
mind about a complete Israeli control
over Gaza Strip including the the
Philadelphia Philadelphia Corridor uh so
I I let's go back to the uh American uh
diplomacy and and the talks that Mr
blinkin uh is having with Egyptian
officials let's we if we can talk about
that what influence does Egypt have with
the US there's been lots of analysts on
Al jazer talking about the influence
that Israel has with the United States
but what is that working relationship
between Cairo and Washington when when
when blinkin arrives because it is as
you say the tension is very high in the
region Egypt and Israel relations are
very strained right now Egypt will want
to express that surely to the Secretary
of State
well I guess I guess the American as
nation is is well aware of the Egyptian
position so uh I don't think that the
talks in Mr blinkon talks with in in in
in Egypt would would dwell on the the
basis the the just of the Egyptian
position I I would expect that the talks
would would would try to find a
compromise solution between the Egyptian
and the Israeli Israeli position
Vis particularly the Philadelphia
Corridor and the ra Crossing we
understand that the American the
American Administration fully understand
the Egyptian positions and and and and
and I would go as as far as saying that
it it it has done it's possible to
accommodate this Egyptian position and
that's what I expect from Mr blinkin in
his talks with either president Cc or
with his cont part today it'll be
interesting to see what does happen
it'll be great to get some analysis from
you when we do have more uh concrete
ideas of what's been agreed Hussein
Hardy thanks for joining us sir from
Cairo it's my pleasure
sir make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer